YouTuber and podcaster Ethan Klein has announced that he’s removed two previous interviews he conducted “years ago” with psychologist Jordan Peterson, describing the author as offering a “dangerous gateway” to extremist views. In a tweet on Friday, Klein admitted Peterson had been an “interesting” guest with whom he’d “enjoyed” talking, but said he’d since become more familiar with his political views, which he said propagated transphobia and Covid-19 misinformation. “I can see he’s a dangerous gateway to alt-right, transphobia, and Covid [misinformation],” The ‘H3 Podcast’ host tweeted about Peterson, informing his followers the interviews had been taken down. Years ago I interviewed Jordan Peterson before I was very familiar with his politics - he was an interesting guest who I enjoyed sitting with. But, especially now, I can see he's a dangerous gateway to alt-right, transphobia, and covid misinfo. I removed both interviews today.— Ethan Klein (@h3h3productions) January 14, 2022 Years ago I interviewed Jordan Peterson before I was very familiar with his politics - he was an interesting guest who I enjoyed sitting with. But, especially now, I can see he's a dangerous gateway to alt-right, transphobia, and covid misinfo. I removed both interviews today. Klein’s decision was questioned by some on social media, however, including Peterson himself, who warned the podcaster that those “who engage in cancel culture generally live to regret it.” “You will be held to higher and higher and soon impossible to maintain ethical standards by the very mob you currently wish to please,” Peterson wrote. “Then you will make a mistake, and they will devour you. With glee. Please take this warning seriously. I liked you.” You will be held to higher and higher and soon impossible to maintain ethical standards by the very mob you currently wish to please. Then you will make a mistake, and they will devour you. With glee. Please take this warning seriously. I liked you.— Dr Jordan B Peterson (@jordanbpeterson) January 15, 2022 You will be held to higher and higher and soon impossible to maintain ethical standards by the very mob you currently wish to please. Then you will make a mistake, and they will devour you. With glee. Please take this warning seriously. I liked you. Klein responded to Peterson, saying he found him “interesting” and “amicable” as a person, but couldn’t condone his views on Covid vaccine policies, for which he said he didn’t want to be a “pipeline.” As I person, I found you amicable and our conversations very interesting and insightful, but I am just not comfortable being apart of a pipeline leading to takes like this. pic.twitter.com/cAsUZD7obx— Ethan Klein (@h3h3productions) January 15, 2022 As I person, I found you amicable and our conversations very interesting and insightful, but I am just not comfortable being apart of a pipeline leading to takes like this. pic.twitter.com/cAsUZD7obx Klein recently criticized Ultimate Fighting Championship commentator and fellow podcaster Joe Rogan, who has hosted Peterson on his show a number of times. He accused Rogan of spreading vaccine misinformation and dubbed him a “f**king piece of s**t” with no authority to speak about health matters, which provoked a swift response on Twitter. Klein’s stand against Peterson has earned him similar criticism online, with some accusing the YouTuber of piggybacking on controversial political topics so as to have social media “meltdowns” that then gain him publicity. I don’t know who this person is but he’s full of it. @jordanbpeterson is a mensch in every possible way. Jordan, ignore these fools. Believe me, I struggle at times to ignore defamers, haters, and parasites but then I quickly come to my senses and move on. Cheers buddy. https://t.co/7h5kMfyXdl— Gad Saad (@GadSaad) January 15, 2022 I don’t know who this person is but he’s full of it. @jordanbpeterson is a mensch in every possible way. Jordan, ignore these fools. Believe me, I struggle at times to ignore defamers, haters, and parasites but then I quickly come to my senses and move on. Cheers buddy. https://t.co/7h5kMfyXdl